How to create your own private MyGet feed and use it in Umbraco Cloud (#4795)
umbraco/UmbracoDocs: umbraco-cloud/set-up/private-nuget-feed.md

# Private Nuget Feed

A private NuGet feed is a package repository that is only accessible to a specific group of users, rather than being publicly available. Private feeds are often used to host internal libraries or proprietary software within an organization. NuGet is a package manager for the Microsoft development platform, including .NET. It makes it easy to add, remove, and update libraries and tools in Visual Studio projects.

In this tutorial, we'll be covering how to set up a private NuGet feed with Umbraco Cloud. 

> ## Set up

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Prerequisite
```

To follow along with this tutorial, you'll need the following tools:

> 1. Visual Studio

Reviewer: Maybe link to the download page of visual studio: 
- https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/downloads/

> 2. A NuGet server (such as ProGet or MyGet)

Reviewer: Maybe it makes sense to link to both ProGet and MyGet from here as well?

If you don't already have these tools installed, you can download Visual Studio from the Microsoft website and set up a NuGet server using one of the options listed above.

## Create a package by following

1. https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/nuget/quickstart/create-and-publish-a-package-using-visual-studio?tabs=netcore-cli

## Create your own MyGet feed by following this documentation

1. https://docs.myget.org/docs/walkthrough/getting-started-with-nuget
2. Remember to create it as private

## Publish your NuGet package to your private MyGet feed

You can do this by going directly to your MyGet feed and upload the NuGet 

or

> by following this documentation: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/nuget/quickstart/create-and-publish-a-package-using-visual-studio?tabs=netcore-cli#publish-with-the-dotnet-cli-ornugetexe-cli

Reviewer: Is these all steps that needs to be done or is it optionally?

If these are all steps i would suggest to do it like:

### step 1: Create a package

### Step 2: Create your own MyGet feed

### Step 3: Publish your NuGet package to your private MyGet feed

Also, I think it makes sense if you can elaborate a bit on what they need to do in each step, instead of just linking to another tutorial

So instead of writing this:

_## Create a package by following

1. https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/nuget/quickstart/create-and-publish-a-package-using-visual-studio?tabs=netcore-cli_

Then write something like this:

### step1: Create a package

The first step is to create and publish a NuGet package using visual studio.

This can be done by following the [Microsoft documentation](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/nuget/quickstart/create-and-publish-a-package-using-visual-studio?tabs=netcore-cli).

I hope this makes sense :)

You can also set up a server on MyGet by following the above link. 

Now you can go ahead and do the following steps.

### Step 1: Create a NuGet package

The first step is to create and publish a NuGet package using visual studio.

This can be done by following the [Microsoft documentation.](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/nuget/quickstart/create-and-publish-a-package-using-visual-studio?tabs=netcore-cli)

### Step 2: Create your own MyGet feed

The second step is to create your own MyGet feed by following the [MyGet documentation.](https://docs.myget.org/docs/walkthrough/getting-started-with-nuget)

Remember to create it as private 

### Step 3: Publish your NuGet package

The third step is to publish your NuGet package to your MyGet feed.

You can do this by going directly to your MyGet feed and upload the NuGet package

or

by following the Microsoft [Documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/nuget/quickstart/create-and-publish-a-package-using-visual-studio?tabs=netcore-cli#publish-with-the-dotnet-cli-or�nugetexe-cli)

### Step 4: Add private MyGet feed on Umbraco Cloud

In the last step, we are going to add the private feed to our Umbraco cloud project. 

> Please do the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Please do the following:

```

# Private Nuget Feed on Umbraco Cloud

A private NuGet feed is a package repository that is only accessible to a specific group of users, rather than being publicly available.

Private feeds are often used to host internal libraries or proprietary software within an organization.

NuGet is a package manager for the Microsoft development platform, including .NET. It gives you the ability to add, remove, and update libraries and tools in Visual Studio projects.

In this tutorial, we'll be covering how to set up a private NuGet feed with Umbraco Cloud. 

## Prerequisite

To follow along with this tutorial, you'll need the following tools:

1. [Visual Studio](https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/downloads/)

> 2. A NuGet server such as [MyGet](https://www.myget.org/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. A NuGet server such as [MyGet](https://www.myget.org/)
3. A Umbraco Cloud project on a standard plan or higher
```

> If you don't already have these tools installed, you can download Visual Studio from the Microsoft website. 
> You can also setup a server on MyGet following the above link. 
> 
> Now you can go ahead an do the following steps.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you don't already have these tools installed, you can download Visual Studio from the Microsoft website. 
You can also set up a server on MyGet by following the above link. 

Now you can go ahead and do the following steps.
```

### Step 1: Create a NuGet package

The first step is to create and publish a NuGet package using visual studio.

This can be done by following the [Microsoft documentation.](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/nuget/quickstart/create-and-publish-a-package-using-visual-studio?tabs=netcore-cli)

### Step 2: Create your own MyGet feed

The second step is to create your own MyGet feed by following the [MyGet documentation.](https://docs.myget.org/docs/walkthrough/getting-started-with-nuget)

Remember to create it as private 

### Step 3: Publish your NuGet package

> The third step is to publish your NuGet package to your MyGet feed.
> 
> You can do this by going directly to your MyGet feed and upload the NuGet 
> 
> or
> 
> by following the Microsoft [Documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/nuget/quickstart/create-and-publish-a-package-using-visual-studio?tabs=netcore-cli#publish-with-the-dotnet-cli-or�nugetexe-cli)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The third step is to publish your NuGet package to your MyGet feed.

You can do this by going directly to your MyGet feed and upload the NuGet package

or

by following the Microsoft [Documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/nuget/quickstart/create-and-publish-a-package-using-visual-studio?tabs=netcore-cli#publish-with-the-dotnet-cli-or�nugetexe-cli)
```

### Step 4: Add private MyGet feed on Umbraco Cloud

> The last step is describes how to add your private feed to your Umbraco cloud project. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the last step, we are going to add the private feed to our Umbraco cloud project. 
```

Please do the following:

1. Create an Umbraco Cloud project (V9 or Above)
2. Access the cloud [Secrets Management](https://docs.umbraco.com/umbraco-cloud/set-up/project-settings/secrets-management) and add your MyGet credentials
3. Clone down your Umbraco Cloud project
4. Open the project locally and build/spin up the site
5. Go to your NuGet.config file in the root of your project.

Here you need to add some configurations

```csharp
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<configuration>
  <packageSources>
    <add key="nuget.org" value="https://api.nuget.org/v3/index.json" />
	<add key="MyGet" value="https://www.myget.org/F/YourMyGetFeed/api/v3/index.json" />
  </packageSources>

	<packageSourceCredentials>
		<MyGet>
			<add key="Username" value="YourUsername" />
			<add key="ClearTextPassword" value="%MYGET_PASSWORD%" />
		</MyGet>
	</packageSourceCredentials>

  <activePackageSource>
    <add key="All" value="(Aggregate source)" />
  </activePackageSource>
  
</configuration>
```

> In the above code example you can see that we are using the Key: "MYGET_PASSWORD" that we created in the previous step.
> We did that by using the Cloud Secrets Management feature on Umbraco Cloud. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the above code example, you can see that we are using the Key: "MYGET_PASSWORD" that we created in the previous step.
We did that by using the Cloud Secrets Management feature on Umbraco Cloud. 
```

Now you can go ahead and do the following steps.

### Step 1: Create a NuGet package

The first step is to create and publish a NuGet package using visual studio.

This can be done by following the [Microsoft documentation.](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/nuget/quickstart/create-and-publish-a-package-using-visual-studio?tabs=netcore-cli)

### Step 2: Create your own MyGet feed

The second step is to create your own MyGet feed by following the [MyGet documentation.](https://docs.myget.org/docs/walkthrough/getting-started-with-nuget)

Remember to create it as private 

### Step 3: Publish your NuGet package

The third step is to publish your NuGet package to your MyGet feed.

You can do this by going directly to your MyGet feed and upload the NuGet package

or

by following the Microsoft [Documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/nuget/quickstart/create-and-publish-a-package-using-visual-studio?tabs=netcore-cli#publish-with-the-dotnet-cli-or�nugetexe-cli)

### Step 4: Add private MyGet feed on Umbraco Cloud

In the last step, we are going to add the private feed to our Umbraco cloud project. 

Please do the following:

> 
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> # Private Nuget Feed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Private Nuget Feed on Umbraco Cloud
```

A private NuGet feed is a package repository that is only accessible to a specific group of users, rather than being publicly available.

Private feeds are often used to host internal libraries or proprietary software within an organization.

NuGet is a package manager for the Microsoft development platform, including .NET. It gives you the ability to add, remove, and update libraries and tools in Visual Studio projects.

In this tutorial, we'll be covering how to set up a private NuGet feed with Umbraco Cloud. 

## Prerequisite

To follow along with this tutorial, you'll need the following tools:

> 1. Visual Studio - https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/downloads/

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. [Visual Studio](https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/downloads/)```

> 2. A NuGet server such as MyGet - https://www.myget.org/

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. A NuGet server such as [MyGet](https://www.myget.org/)
```

If you don't already have these tools installed, you can download Visual Studio from the Microsoft website. 
You can also setup a server on MyGet following the above link. 

Now you can go ahead an do the following steps.

> ## Step 1 create a package

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Step 1: Create a NuGet package
```

The first step is to create and publish a NuGet package using visual studio.

> This can be done by following the Microsoft documentation.
> 
> https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/nuget/quickstart/create-and-publish-a-package-using-visual-studio?tabs=netcore-cli

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This can be done by following the [Microsoft documentation.](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/nuget/quickstart/create-and-publish-a-package-using-visual-studio?tabs=netcore-cli)
```

> ## Step 2 create your own MyGet feed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Step 2: Create your own MyGet feed
```

The second step is to create your own MyGet feed by following the MyGet documentation.
1. https://docs.myget.org/docs/walkthrough/getting-started-with-nuget

Remember to create it as private 

> ## Step 3 publish your NuGet package

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Step 3: Publish your NuGet package
```

The third step is to publish your NuGet package to your MyGet feed.

You can do this by going directly to your MyGet feed and upload the NuGet 

or

by following this documentation: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/nuget/quickstart/create-and-publish-a-package-using-visual-studio?tabs=netcore-cli#publish-with-the-dotnet-cli-ornugetexe-cli

> ## Step 4 Umbraco Cloud

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Step 4: Add private MyGet feed on Umbraco Cloud
```

> by following this documentation: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/nuget/quickstart/create-and-publish-a-package-using-visual-studio?tabs=netcore-cli#publish-with-the-dotnet-cli-ornugetexe-cli

Reviewer: ```suggestion
by following the Microsoft [Documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/nuget/quickstart/create-and-publish-a-package-using-visual-studio?tabs=netcore-cli#publish-with-the-dotnet-cli-ornugetexe-cli)
```

The last step is describes how to add your private feed to your Umbraco cloud project. 

Please do the following:

1. Create an Umbraco Cloud project (V9 or Above)

> 2. Access the cloud secrets management and add your MyGet credentials: https://docs.umbraco.com/umbraco-cloud/set-up/project-settings/secrets-management

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Access the cloud [Secrets Management](https://docs.umbraco.com/umbraco-cloud/set-up/project-settings/secrets-management) and add your MyGet credentials
```
